hey guys we are live streaming with the
phlegm face aka aka Ellie Fleming
apologies the sound quality some you
guys hate the fact that I normally am
holding this glowing white sphere or my
microphone we are right now in Seattle
and I came here with just one tiny
backpack with enough clothes for ten
days so well we're recording all this
stuff without my usual microphone
equipment now that we're settling in
Canada we may be able to invest some
more money in better or lighting better
because that's why people come to this
channel right that's why you come nobody
gives a [ __ ] about open e anyway so with
that would that apology aside hit me le
you were just saying that this issue of
pet ownership is still a big deal and I
assume you mean it's a big deal with in
and amongst being an activist yeah yeah
we're talking about it you know
especially the BDDs because it really
separates the vegans and I'm someone who
not on the fence but you see a lot of
people but then you see the vegans
drawing the line further and saying you
know any use is exploitation any use of
slavery well you know one of the lessons
I took out of all the different areas of
philosophy of dealt with because you
know there was political philosophy but
also Buddhist philosophy is that you
have to be really leery of you have to
be really concerned about people
treating problems as methodologically
sophisticated and abstruse when they're
not and you know some of my own videos
about this may be a little bit
convoluted or intellectually intense
there are people to follow but you know
there is one aspect of this that I think
is childishly simple and we shouldn't
allow to become abstruse or complex my
approach is not an animal-rights
approach it's an approach based on doing
the best
you can and I think a great example of
that that contrasts to and informs this
question about pet ownership is what we
do about rats and rat infestation and
don't pretend that rat infestation is a
question like what would you do on a
desert island if you're everything it's
not that rare you know fifty percent of
humanity or more many of us have dealt
with it already in the past if you live
in an apartment building almost anywhere
in the world even in the Arctic you can
have rat infestation amazingly you know
you know sometimes your candy you think
well it's so cold out here but at least
I don't have to deal with rats and
cockroaches let me tell you you have no
natural predators there so I'm just
gonna sit with West Coast - it's one of
those cold rainy environments sorry cold
compared to Cambodia be like in Cambodia
we have snakes that eat the rats you
don't have pythons crawling around your
staircase and you could try you could
try to revive the the foxes or you know
falcons
some of those birds of prey they'll
swoop down and eat a rat when they have
a chance to but they're they're a lot
better at killing rabbits than they were
killing rats but yeah look you know so
if my ethic is based on doing the best
you can and when you look at example
like that right away you're into these
kinds of questions you know what is the
best we can do much you mean most traps
as you know a large part of is just
trying to design the building you're
living in to keep rats out stop them
coming inside in the first place there
are some things you can do but yeah the
bottom line is I don't believe animals
have souls you know my unlike the animal
rights model my approach is not based on
the notion of never killing an animal
you know I'd like to avoid or minimize
killing animals obviously on the
my diet obviously I would never purchase
leather but how do you actually manage
rats it's it's a difficult question and
I think anyone being honest themselves
is gonna come to very a very imperfect
set of answers what do you do in the
world starting in the year 2018 not
starting from a blank piece of paper
about the situation with with
domesticated animals there are some
things we can clearly abolish I mean a
lot of vegans like this word abolish why
the hell should we have racetracks with
horses you know things like that which
almost always are supported by by
governments by taxpayers dollars you
know they had a huge collapse in the
number of horses in Spain after the 2008
crisis I remember I was reading with
that and some people were worried about
specific breeds of Spanish horse you
know domesticated breeds going extinct
these are human created breeds but
they'd been an important part of Spanish
history and European history you know in
various medieval war or sort have you
because nobody was maintaining these
horses anymore the government money had
disappeared and private sector money a
disappeared and so on there are some
things you can talk about abolishing but
it's it's not easy to just get out this
this word with a capital letter a and
wave it in front of the you know the
baleful reality of living in a society
that's made out of meat with this huge
pet industry and say abolish abolish
abolish but on the other hand yeah it's
really really weird oh look we talked
about this in terms of dating all the
time like the amazing thing isn't just
that I found a vegan woman who loves me
is that I found a vegan woman who
doesn't own any dogs or cats or whatever
Jay was right right she seemed kind of
approach to ecology he seemed kind of I
think of as rational and logical
approach to topeka activism but you know
Jay was joking the other day Jay costly
he said in his heart of hearts he really
doesn't know what's worse having a
girlfriend who's vegan and owns like six
paths or having a girlfriend he's a
meat-eater and not opposed to being and
somebody doesn't own pets that would
never own a pet so on that on that human
level it's a huge stumbling block it's a
huge issue we all gotta cope with one
way or another yeah
the horse-riding thing that's the issue
with the whole breathing using them
because and cheltenham is very famous
for its racetrack you'd see after the
big games the assault the assaulting but
the point is when they come to town the
excuse people use is the money that it
brings it because if you see after the
games
suddenly buildings start getting built
some of these things start happening
within the town and refurbishments are
made so there's always that argument of
oh well the money so and that's my issue
with the whole breeding and having
animals this it's the money thing
because we will always put the money
before the animals and I think I think
that the basic concept of politics lives
and dies with the idea that the public
interest what's in the public's interest
is something separate from money you
know and I really worry about that when
we look at American politics it often
seems like in the United States of
America you have a political system
that's totally based on short-term
interest in money and no concept or a
very weak concept of doing what's in the
public interest you know as something
apart from money but um you know
anything can be justified this way
including dealing cocaine dealing
there's a lot of money you know right
now we're legalizing marijuana in Canada
it's a lot of money it's a lot of thing
about and indeed you know even some of
the experiments I remember I think it
was one of the provinces of Germany not
Germany as a whole that decided to
legalize prostitution and they had all
these arguments for it but then there
was this enormous concentration of
prostitution from all these surrounding
areas coming there from nearby
Luxembourg and so on you know and
suddenly their whole society was
transformed they were really loo they
were not expecting this to be a
Pandora's box but if it's just about
money you know these are
these are easy examples you know a
counter example this is many decades ago
when L is really a child that was
fascinated by Singapore country of
Singapore really because it's the
opposite of Canada in so many ways
Canada is enormous and Singapore is tiny
Canada has a very low quality of
government it is very inattentive kind
of absent-minded government and
Singapore has under kind of dictatorial
micromanaging control where the
government is really paying attention to
everything you know it was famously in
Singapore it's a crime to to chew gum in
public in this kind of thing they're
really really tightly controlled but you
know Singapore they made the decision I
forget when this was but many decades
ago to kick out the car industry they
had a car industry that's money that's
money in your economy but when they did
the analysis they said look we've got
limited land limited resources limited
tolerance for pollution and yes the car
industry employs some people and
generate some money but if we kick them
out we'll have more space for things
like computer chips and actually weapons
manufacturing they were also into into
the gun industry there and some other
things that were better that were more
in the public interest and didn't
massively pollute there they're in water
and so on and they made that decision
they made the decision the public enters
to kick out the car industry that went
to South Korea and elsewhere you know
instead so no you know I think almost by
definition politics the public sphere
almost any conversation we're going to
have whether it's about cigarettes or
alcohol or cocaine or the automotive
industry or you know resources we've got
to have a concept of something other
than money otherwise what we're talking
about is is not politics it's just
business and business can be painfully
short short-sighted Kenickie can be such
a short short-term thing so yeah yeah a
lot of this I suppose is where we decide
as a community to draw the line and that
that brings on to another topic that
yeah my group you're talking about
currently and we could probably even
make a separate video about this and
it's the someone brought up
insect-eating yeah and it's like where
do we where are we going to in the
future
collectively draw the line
you know I've also I've also lived in
societies where people really eat
insects most obviously Cambodia you know
they really they really eat insects
they're they put up special special
lamps a night yeah I assume you never
look at this you know yes well sorry you
know flat face you may not have done
sorry to call you from sorry would salt
you by calling this wasn't was gonna
make but my girlfriend mentioned he
studies good intelligence some of the
most thoroughly studied animals for
their intelligence are sea slugs se a
sea slugs and they're in the European
Union laws on animal rights so this is
bizarre I've read the original text of
those laws the EU laws because the EU
laws were started with this concept of
well animal rights should be in
proportion of their intelligence and
then they had to go through the existing
corpus of academic research now my
theory as to why there is so much
scientific evidence about the
intelligence of sea slugs is that the
research is really cheap to do you know
if you want do research on elephants
that's expensive you know you need a
huge enclosure and whatever but sea
slugs I think you can have a pretty
small tank of saltwater and but it's
been incredibly thoroughly proven the
level of intelligence and suffering and
feeling of pain that some of these in
oceanic invertebrates have so that is
that is interesting in and of itself I
think the the the main go to example
people who disagree with me my opponents
would use is actually of oysters and I
did believe it or not read about oyster
biology an oyster intelligence back in
about 1997 when I was university student
was some
research I did before I started using
the word or vegan but you know that
would that aside my approach isn't based
on any drawing a line as you put it it's
not based on drawing the line as to
where sentience starts or where
intelligence starts or where feeling and
respond to pain starts my approach is
based on doing the best you can and
that's why for me there's really no
conflict about oysters or insects or
honey you know I would readily admit
honey is not morally rubber bit --iv in
the same way that the flesh of a cow is
you know what I mean it is like you know
that the taste and the smell of it and
so on isn't revolting the way cheese is
or something I mean oh that's basically
just sugar in a jar and it's the end
product of this bizarre form of
exploitation of insects which I am
morally opposed to by the way
but you know when vegans do question
well some vegans do question would honey
be over the line or not would Easter's
be over the line nada wouldn't sex be
Oakland or not my question is why are
you even drawing the line because my
approach is based on doing the best you
can which again sounds childishly simple
but it's not I'm just not making this
more methodological a sophisticated that
needs to be it's doing the best you can
with a tragic awareness a tragical
awareness that inevitably I'm gonna have
to kill rats inevitably I'm gonna have
to kill cockroaches indefinitely gonna
have to kill some highly intelligent
animals like birds you know Ravens are
astoundingly intelligent the intelligent
Ravens are amazing I don't want to if
you're gonna run an airport you got to
kill birds this is this is a sad fact in
life there were all kinds of tragic
situations in which I am gonna
exterminate animals however there are
many situations that are within my
sphere of influence like I may not have
a choice about killing the rats I'm
gonna have a choice about killing the
cockroaches or the the birds in some
circumstances but again if I'm not on a
desert island just given that I'm doing
the best I can
why would I be eating oysters why would
I be eating insects why would I be
eating
honey but yes in a situation of absolute
scarcity
I remember seeing wild honey growing on
one of the last remaining jungle trees
in northern Laos it's a beautiful thing
in its way it would be terrifying that
the shimmy up a tree in the jungle and
try to hack out you know the honey
Ravens do that falcons do that turn over
Ravens but you know there are birds of
prey that go up to those those jungle
hives and dig their claws in and take
the honey out and the bees are all
stinging the claw and trying to sting
the bird through its feather it's very
dramatic sight you know okay if I'm
starving to death in the jungle would
you rather eat honey or oysters or
insects or kill a deer okay we can do
that as a thought experiment but I see
no point in joining the line because my
ethic is based on doing the best you can
which is not again it's not heroic it's
tragic it's a it's a tragic situation of
knowing look how many slaughter how many
animals were slaughtered today this is
for me is based on a tragical worldview
a you know we can talk about saving the
planet or saving the world's ecology or
not you know and it's amazing how much
the world has changed in two years we
were just in Detroit we went to [ __ ]
shitty suburban a scarf and barf
roadside a you know big box grocery
stores and they have like three fridges
dedicated to vegan stuff you know vegan
vegan ground beef substitute eat this
because it is amazing how far we go and
just seeing the word vegan in those
contexts where I go up to a pastry case
full of different doughnuts and cupcakes
and like six of them have the word vegan
on the label so people have never heard
of veganism before gonna see that again
and again every day they go into a donut
store they go into a coffee shop and
they see the word vegan that's way more
effective messaging for us than most
forms of protest on the street Oh like
they'll just ask oh what's vegan vegan
is a type of muffin what does that mean
oh okay some people are like oh this
really matters to some people that this
muffin doesn't contain chicken eggs you
know it's not just as though
the world has changed but this is
totally tragic roaming this is not
celebratory you know it's in that of
course I know you're but I once answered
this on my blog before I had a YouTube
channel I had a vegan blog and I
answered questions from both meat-eaters
who were hostile and sometimes from
vegans who disagree with me and one of
them was about this issue of the of the
oyster now I do not believe the argument
the oyster is not sentient oysters are
motile they do move they move to from a
bad spot to a good spot which most
people don't realize most people think
oysters stay in the same spot forever
this has been scientifically proven
oysters do respond to stimuli when a
bird flies overhead creating a shadow
they have light receptors you know she
could call I is their very crude eyes
but they can perceive light and they
close to defend themselves against birds
and predators it's more famous the very
unbeaten example but something that
happens often enough that many people
observed it dogs on the beach try to eat
oysters and then the oyster closes on
the dog's tongue and the tongue is
drowned to death when the tide comes in
so this is something that's happened
enough in history that it's been
observed several dozen times or
something you can imagine you know stray
dog or something trying to eat an oyster
and the oyster responds to the shadow
and closest to defend itself so I just
mentioned so in terms of the definition
of sentience I don't actually think
there's a legitimate debate with ledges
but I remember of someone challenging me
on this so there was some vegan who took
the view that only creatures that have a
centralized brain and not merely ganglia
of nerves of neurons
yeah so they did they were using they
were drawing the line as you say and I
point out response to that how contra do
this is it okay so this is an oyster and
here's a Paris
that leaves on the oyster so it's a type
of parasite that's a little bit famous
in history it uses its tongue to slowly
drill through the oyster shell and then
used to eat the oyster and it's actually
famous because in history it used to
make its evolution baby
millions of years of evolution but yeah
it's it's a it's a it's a smaller you
know sea creature that fastens onto
oysters and that slowly kills them and
eats them and it does have a brain of
someone it does meet these other these
other criteria and this this particular
parasite is famous because it has a type
of purple dye in it so in ancient times
humans killed it for its dye and that
was actually the purple robes worn in
ancient Rome and the use of purple
associated with royalty was actually
this type of parasite which was farmed
you know in the Thames the River Thames
in front of London so this was this was
collected it's an interesting part of
the history of Europe going all the way
back to the Roman Empire the tree
parasite but anyway I wrote back saying
isn't it absurdly contradictory
therefore that as a vegan you would
refuse to eat oysters because by killing
oysters you're killing the parasites
that live on their back that the parrot
like from your perspective if you're
drawing the line this way the parasites
that live on the shell of an oyster have
more animal rights than the oyster does
therefore you refuse to eat oysters like
I'm sorry are you [ __ ] kidding me but
again I think that animal rights as an
approach is deeply flawed it leads to
impossible contradictions of this kind
and this is someone who's okay I was
gonna say this is someone who's well
intentioned
I don't even believe that I don't think
it is well in tension I think what's
well in tension is doing the best you
can even when you know it's hopeless
even when I know the Sun is gonna rise
tomorrow and these these these factories
are gonna kill millions of animals I
think the ultimate reason to not be
vegan and not eat meat is that sense of
helplessness is that whether or not you
eat your little hamburger there's still
gonna be millions of millions of cows
killed which is which is very sad but
you know come on son you're you're
telling me your justification for eating
oysters they don't meet this scientific
standard when even the the parasite on
the oysters back does that that's not
well attention to me that that to me is
yeah that's where drawing the line comes
into play because my argument then is
okay well isn't it response to stimuli
but it doesn't have a subjective
experience I've got to go with a pop
culture reference on this from my
generation that was different because of
one TV show that was really popular and
was in reruns all the time before the
internet before the internet started
handling video so at that time the
internet just barely existed but Star
Trek The Next Generation it had a
character called Commander data who was
a human robot and Android and Android
the robot that resembled a person and
that show for like 30 hours like every
episode is one hour long and I think
more than 30 episodes dealt with this
question of sentience and it was very
much in the context of at what point is
a computer so sophisticated that it
becomes sentient so my little generation
again even if you were not a fan of that
show back then they're kind of there was
no internet there was no YouTube there
was no video on the internet and like
that show was in reruns all it was like
filler for so biggie
you know broadcast TV stations I think
every
in that generation got really familiar
with the debate around sentience and
every were asking my father about it and
my father was kind of correcting my
impression from the show I thought you
had to reach quite a high level of
sophistication to be sentient that my
father was like no no no like you know
bivalves are sentient like all these
animals are said it the question is
whether or not a computer actually has a
response to stimuli that reaches this
threshold as being as being sentient as
being feeling not thinking you know or
you know suffering is that is the normal
criteria used by vegans so there are
debates around that and I mean some of
the debates are very science fiction and
you know some of the debates are for
example there used to be I think this is
out of style and that used to be a lot
of debates ago - at what point can you
kill someone who's on life-support and I
dealt with that just kind of hope in
real life in politics but also within
Buddhism when I was a practice practice
I'm worth Xterra by the bush that was a
big question within within tera vaada
but isn't one point can you you know
take someone off life support or
actively kill them like give them a dose
of painkillers that will kill them in
terms of the progress of their disease
or them being partly brain dead or you
know all these bizarre sore neck
injuries that have cut off the brain
from the body there are all these
different conditions that deal with so
there also there was a kind of set
viable sentience debate you know what I
mean so yeah that for my generation
those were really the issues around
around sentience not oysters are not not
veganism and I just said I think those
are legitimate questions that's from
those perspective if you are a Buddhist
monk providing palliative care in
hospitals
I see why that comes up if you're in
science fiction imaginary robots a zoo
but I for the vegan diet I don't see why
it comes up and I mean Jesus this is a
movement we just did the [ __ ] March
they in Vancouver Vancouver just said
the March to close all slaughterhouses
and what are the [ __ ] slogans for
this movement Meat Is Murder
speciesism is the root of all oppression
it's such a laughable slogan speciesism
is the root of all oppression you know
think about how that sounds is someone
who's never
wait and rather than being about doing
the best you can do because look if all
if killing animals is murder I'm Pro
murder right I've already said killing
rats killing cockroaches right so I'm on
the murder side so now I'm a vegan but
you know it's at me because I because
I'm willing to admit that we have to
kill rats as vegans I don't know any
vegans who really claim we can live
without ever killing rats
you know we've even thought it through
just a thought experiment okay so now
I'm on them I'm on now I'm Pro murder if
you call that murder and in this fight I
can I can call murder I'm not messed up
about the word but you know as you know
also I don't think the world can exist
without warfare I think it's inevitable
gonna have some more like that as little
as possible I would rather not have
meaningless Wars and endless wars but
war is involved killing human beings for
sure not gonna pretend that they don't
there's a certain inevitability to some
of these these forms of violence she
doesn't mean I recklessly embrace them
you know the standard image of the fact
that driving a car down the road means
you're inevitably going to kill some
insects and once in a while you might
kill a rabbit or a deer this is true but
that doesn't mean you recklessly drive
down the road and hit as many deer as
you can or something you know you
wanting to minimize you know violence is
different from believing you can you can
eliminate it but anyway this is my point
on this issue of messaging do you really
think we're gonna switch to a message
which is yeah yeah Meat Is Murder
assuming the victim of the murderer
passes this technical definition of
sentient
Mena's murder unless it's a lobster or
no come on you know speciesism is the
root of all oppression and here's our
definition of intelligence or something
to me it's laughable to me to me it's a
joke and to me it's it is also taking
something very simple and making it
methodological sophisticated
complex for no reason where there's
there's nothing to be gained it's quite
difficult because that's real but that's
sincere when people are appealing they
may they may not be just [ __ ] with
you they may really sincerely feel
Bronson and he appealed to leti over and
over again he was basically saying that
oil and Google Hangouts and you know
over and over again because I used over
and over again
he was so that's that's that specific
delusion I'm spoken on delusion but it's
often very sincere I'm spoken at many
times specifically response to Jake
Eames I miss Jake Eames he used to have
some really good YouTube content you did
a really good video about calcium in the
vegan diet and inhuman diets generally
Jake Eames met me in person more talent
but he's gone now he quit you know no
such a team's with a skinny guy and
durianrider threatened to beat him up
when we were
Thailand together so he was part of that
controversy at that time yes
talking about talking to a man that was
that was him sorry I'm sorry - I'm not
shouting him out for being a skinny guy
I just mentioned it's ironic that the
same time during Robert was refusing to
meet with me he was threatening to kick
Jake's ass so what a tough guy
durianrider is only picking on people
smaller than himself that's their inner
biker style and then running to the cops
and lying to the cops about it that's
three writers though there are this is
the intellectual caliber of political
leaders we have in veganism today yeah
um so look that that specific issue on
appeal to fertility and so on with Jake
Eames
I one of the things I really tried to
get across to him in several videos in
several podcasts was that his mentality
was of seeing the human being as a dot
in the middle of the map with a sphere
around that human of how much damage how
much harm the person is doing to the
environment to the world socially etc
and he was only thinking of activism in
terms of reducing that sphere so that
you know to close the circle down around
around the dot and I was saying no
that's that's not my approach and that's
not how I want you to think of political
activism I want you to think of it the
positive impact you can have and
maximizing that expanding it you know
like I am NOT gonna spend my time
focusing on never using a disposable pen
right which is a real example I've known
people like that no go go where they
will never use a plastic disposable pen
my question is what are you writing what
are you using the pen for you know you
can use that pen and change the world
and you know the amount in terms of the
human waste stream if you look at all
the disposable pens were using they add
up to a completely trivial impact on the
landfills around the world in contrast
to meat and the bones of the cows and
the runoff from the meat industry and so
on so you know that one thing is just
the actual scale but the other side of
it is go take your disposable pen and
hold it like a totem like a religious
icon and walk into any secondhand
bookstore we were in a secondhand
bookstore yesterday
and look at the wall of books in front
of you in a secondhand bookstore 98
percent of them are [ __ ] nobody ever
wants to read and nobody should read
that are a complete waste of time you
know you can stand in front of one of
these walls of novels depends which
section you're in admittedly you know
you're looking at this you think look at
all this paper and look at all this ink
and it all began with a pen it all began
with this that the key to Pandora's box
don't forget the pen maybe the problem
here isn't the pen and it isn't the pen
ending up in a garbage dump when you're
done writing with maybe the problem is
what you're writing maybe the problem is
the positive difference you're trying to
make in the world right so trying to say
anyone using it doesn't know who she is
the one who tosses she did a TED talk
and she has an entire traction for four
years in one single messenger and she
think with her website she's using
airplane tickets though taking an
airplane is a huge huge a global impact
right she influenced to zero waste
lifestyle her life up I bet people like
her if you use if you use it correctly
you could have an overall positive
impact and it's not you know the
internet itself that's the issue
it's you know where we're getting our
energy source wrong well ISM veganism is
to some extent a consumer movement so I
understand how people slip into that
mentality of just trying to reduce the
sphere of their negative impact and they
forget about maximizing the sphere of
their positive impact and really
thinking about what effect they're gonna
have and how they're gonna how they're
gonna impact it but you know look I'm
now at printing up t-shirts for a
ballast yell for my youtube channel I
don't know it's kind of silly um you
know people are gonna wear a t-shirt one
way or another
might as well I can send you one Ellie I
said my logo on it how about slim face
for mayor so it's even more confusing
but look you know okay but let's use the
mayor as an example if I'm running for
mayor
would I say to you no no no I can't
possibly damage the environment by
printing these t-shirts promoting my
candidacy for mayor because this is you
know this is wasteful I can't possibly
print this piece of you know cardboard
to try to win this election
do you believe you've really got
something to win here or not like if you
don't think it's gonna make a big
fundamental difference in the world if
you win this election don't run in the
election at all right that's the way to
save experimental impact only do things
that are meaningful in your life only do
things that really matter have
objectives you're pursuing that are
worth putting the pen in the garbage
that are worth printing the poster that
are worth printing the t-shirt for and
then you're not going to regret this
impact but you know The Consumerist
focus is in itself misleading life is
not just about consumption life is also
about production life is also about
politics life is also about war and if I
asked you hey do you want to fight this
war whether it's the war in Syria or the
war in Afghanistan the war in Vietnam do
you want to use half as much gasoline
cuz jet fuel adds up baby you burn a lot
of gasoline in war you wouldn't believe
you know all the supplies and provisions
are being flown in and out so a lot how
about we use half as much jet fuel and
twice as many human casualties you know
eventually it's probably gonna be four
what if the whole war takes twice as
long but we do with half as much jet
fuel wouldn't that be great no you know
people are trying to win wars as quickly
as possible to have the maximum impact
in a short period of time as possible
and that is partly due to the impact on
civilians by the way the situation in
Yemen
now with people starving to death though
the longer a war goes on the more you
get those dislocations for civilians
where people are supposed to - wanted
hunger and lack of medical care at
starvation just due to the duration of
the war so if you can use twice as much
jet fuel and indeed maybe twice as much
in your budget and so on wars are
incredibly wasteful but you can win the
war and in half as much time those are
the types of really really hard
decisions that people have to make so
just say that that focus you know now
veganism is not a war and veganism is
not as politically straightforward as
running for mayor and it's not and it
doesn't exclude consumer choice activism
consumerism is an aspect an important
aspect of things you know though all
these things are part of veganism and
more but my point is it's really easy
for people to slip into this solipsistic
view I think it is truly so up says that
where they're just looking at the the
sphere of of how much they consume